CONVENTIONAL_COMMIT.md, before:

# Rules for conventional commits

Start interactive `@commitlint/prompt-cli` with

```bash
npm run commit
```

## Commit message format

```txt
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The footer should contain a closing reference to an issue if any.

## Type

- build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
- ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- docs: Documentation only changes
- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- perf: A code change that improves performance
- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests

## Scope (optional)

The scope should be the name of the npm package affected.

Supported:

- **animations**
- **common**
- **compiler**
- **compiler-cli**
- **core**
- **elements**
- **forms**
- **http**
- **language-service**
- **platform-browser**
- **platform-browser-dynamic**
- **platform-server**
- **platform-webworker**
- **platform-webworker-dynamic**
- **router**
- **service-worker**
- **upgrade**

Exceptions:

- **packaging**: used for changes that change the npm package layout in all of our packages, e.g. public path changes, package.json changes done to all packages, d.ts file/format changes, changes to bundles, etc.
- **changelog**: used for updating the release notes in CHANGELOG.md

## Subject

- short
- imperative, present tense
- lowercase first letter
- no dot at the end

## Body

Rules as in subject

## Footer

- if the commit closes an issue:

`Closes: #123, #234, #435`

- in case of **breaking changes**:

```txt
BREAKING CHANGE: verbose description of the change, including 

Before: ... 

After: ...
```

[Source: Angular project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit#heading=h.uyo6cb12dt6w)

Commit message:

docs: add release please documentation

CONVENTIONAL_COMMIT.md, after:

# Semver with conventional commits and Release Please

**Conventional commits** and **release please** automate changelog creation.

## Commit mesage format

Start interactive `@commitlint/prompt-cli` with

```bash
npm run commit
```

```txt
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The footer should contain a closing reference to an issue if any.

## Type

(In **bold** the types relevant to Release Please)

- build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
- ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- docs: Documentation only changes
- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix
- perf: A code change that improves performance
- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests

Adding a **!** as in **feat!**, **fix!**, **refactor!** indicaets a breaking change and will increment the SemVer major version.

## Scope (optional)

The scope should be the name of the npm package affected.

Supported:

- **animations**
- **common**
- **compiler**
- **compiler-cli**
- **core**
- **elements**
- **forms**
- **http**
- **language-service**
- **platform-browser**
- **platform-browser-dynamic**
- **platform-server**
- **platform-webworker**
- **platform-webworker-dynamic**
- **router**
- **service-worker**
- **upgrade**

Exceptions:

- **packaging**: used for changes that change the npm package layout in all of our packages, e.g. public path changes, package.json changes done to all packages, d.ts file/format changes, changes to bundles, etc.
- **changelog**: used for updating the release notes in CHANGELOG.md

## Subject

- short
- imperative, present tense
- lowercase first letter
- no dot at the end

## Body

Rules as in subject

## Footer

- if the commit closes an issue:

`Closes: #123, #234, #435`

- in case of **breaking changes**:

```txt
BREAKING CHANGE: verbose description of the change, including 

Before: ... 

After: ...
```

[Source: Angular project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit#heading=h.uyo6cb12dt6w)

## Release Please
